The President:
Hello, everybody.
I'm speaking to you today from a
UPS customer center in Landover,
Maryland, where I came to talk
about an issue that's affecting
families and businesses
just like this one --
the rising price of gas, and
what we can do as a country to
reduce our dependence
on foreign oil.
This week, I released a
Blueprint for a Secure Energy Future.
It's a strategy to reduce the
oil we import from around the
world, and to make our
economy stronger at home.
Part of this strategy involves
increasing our oil exploration
right here in America.
In fact, our oil production last
year reached its highest level
since 2003, and we want
to encourage more safe,
responsible drilling
where we can.
But the truth is, drilling
alone is not a real strategy to
replace our dependence
on foreign oil.
And that's because even though
America uses 25% of the world's
oil, we currently have only
about 2% of the world's oil reserves.
Even if we used every last
drop of all the oil we have,
it wouldn't be enough to meet
our long-term energy needs.
So, real energy security can
only come if we find ways to use
less oil -- if we invest in
cleaner fuels and greater efficiency.
That's what we've been
doing since I took office.
For example, we secured an
agreement from all the major
auto companies to raise the fuel
efficiency standards of their
cars and trucks.
So if you buy a new car, the
better gas mileage is going to
save you about $3,000.
Altogether, this will save us
about 1.8 billion barrels of oil
as a country.
So we need to build
on that progress.
As we make our cars and
trucks more efficient,
we've got to harness new
technologies to fuel our
vehicles with everything from
biofuels to natural gas to
advanced batteries.
And the good news is, these
technologies aren't science
fiction anymore.
They exist today.
Already, American car companies
are producing electric vehicles
that use little or no gas.
And innovators across America
are testing new products that
hold incredible promise
not just for new vehicles,
but for countless new jobs.
To help jumpstart this market,
the federal government has
doubled the number of clean energy
vehicles that we have in our fleet.
In the next few years, we're going
to switch the entire fleet over.
And I'm here at UPS because it's
not just the government getting
in on the action.
Companies like UPS, FedEx,
AT&T, Verizon, and PepsiCo --
firms with some of the largest
fleets in the country --
are switching to more
efficient vehicles.
And through our Clean
Fleets Partnership,
driven not by government,
but by business,
more companies are going to
be switching to electric and
alternative vehicles, too --
not out of the goodness of their
hearts, but because it's
good for their bottom lines.
The goal is simple.
When I was elected
to this office,
America imported 11 million
barrels of oil a day.
Through these and other steps,
by a little more than a decade
from now, we will have
cut that by one third.
And by doing so, we're going to
make our economy less vulnerable
to wild swings in oil prices.
We're going to use cleaner
sources of energy that don't
imperil our climate.
And we're going to spark new
products and businesses all over
the country by tapping America's
greatest renewable resource: our ingenuity.
We know how important this is.
This week, we learned that the
economy added 230,000 private
sector jobs last month.
That makes 1.8 million private
sector jobs created in the last
13 months.
That's a good sign.
But we have to keep
up the momentum,
and transitioning to a clean energy
economy will help us do that.
It will ensure that the United
States of America is the home of
the jobs and
industries of tomorrow.
That's how we'll win the future.
That's how we'll leave our
children an America that's more
secure and more
prosperous than before.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.